## Rails 6
* [Rails 6 features](https://www.toptal.com/ruby-on-rails/rails-6-features)

```
# start new project with postgres database
rails _version_ new <name> -d=postgresql
```

### Active Record

Active Record is the M in MVC - the model - which is the layer of the system responsible for representing business data and logic. Active Record facilitates the creation and use of business objects whose data requires persistent storage to a database. It is an implementation of the Active Record pattern which itself is a description of an Object Relational Mapping system.

**ORM**

Object Relational Mapping, commonly referred to as its abbreviation ORM, is a technique that connects the rich objects of an application to tables in a relational database management system. Using ORM, the properties and relationships of the objects in an application can be easily stored and retrieved from a database without writing SQL statements directly and with less overall database access code.

Active Record gives us several mechanisms, the most important being the ability to:
* Represent models and their data.
* Represent associations between these models.
* Represent inheritance hierarchies through related models.
* Validate models before they get persisted to the database.
* Perform database operations in an object-oriented fashion.

**CoC -Convention over Configuration in Active Record**
When writing applications using other programming languages or frameworks, it may be necessary to write a lot of configuration code. However, if you follow the conventions adopted by Rails, you'll need to write very little configuration (in some cases no configuration at all) when creating Active Record models.

The idea is that if you configure your applications in the very same way most of the time then this should be the default way. Thus, explicit configuration would be needed only in those cases where you can't follow the standard convention.

* Model - Singular, Capitalized
* DB - Plural
