### Batches
Looping through a collection of records from the database (using the Scoping::Named::ClassMethods.all method, for example) is very inefficient since it will try to instantiate all the objects at once.

Batch processing methods allow you to work with the records in batches, thereby greatly reducing memory consumption.

**find_each**
The find_each method uses find_in_batches with a batch size of 1000. This method is only intended to use for batch processing of large amounts of records that wouldn’t fit in memory all at once.


```
User.find_each do |u|
  NewsMailer.weekly(u).deliver_now
end
```

**where**
[Where Method](https://www.rubyguides.com/2019/07/rails-where-method/)
If you’re expecting one record (a specific user), use find_by, for multiple records (a list of users) use where. And you can combine where with a scope.

```
# scope definition
class Book
  scope :long_title, -> { where("LENGTH(title) > 20") }
end

# controller code
@books = Book.long_title.where(category: "Ruby")
```

**or**
[Rails OR](https://www.bigbinary.com/blog/rails-5-adds-or-support-in-active-record)
You can combine where with the or method to get rows that match ANY of two or more conditions.

```
Book.where(category: "Programming").or(Book.where(category: "Ruby"))
```


**select**

```
User.select()
```

**limit & offset**
We can use limit to tell the number of records to be fetched, and use offset to tell the number of records to skip before starting to return the records.

```
User.limit(5).offset(30) #returns 5 records starting from 31th i.e from 31 to 35
```

**having**
Allows to specify a HAVING clause. Note that you can’t use HAVING without also specifying a GROUP clause.

```
Person.group(:age).having('count(*) > 1').order('age desc').count
```

**unscope**
[Unscope](https://apidock.com/rails/v5.2.3/ActiveRecord/QueryMethods/unscope)
Removes an unwanted relation that is already defined on a chain of relations. This is useful when passing around chains of relations and would like to modify the relations without reconstructing the entire chain.

```
User.order('email DESC').unscope(:order) == User.all
```

The method can also be called with multiple arguments. For example:

```
User.order('email DESC').select('id').where(name: "John")
    .unscope(:order, :select, :where) == User.all
```
