## Validation

**:acceptance**
This method validates that a checkbox on the user interface was checked when a form was submitted. This is typically used when the user needs to agree to your application's terms of service, confirm that some text is read, or any similar concept.

**:confirmation**
You should use this helper when you have two text fields that should receive exactly the same content. For example, you may want to confirm an email address or a password. This validation creates a virtual attribute whose name is the name of the field that has to be confirmed with "_confirmation" appended.

**:presence**
This helper validates that the specified attributes are not empty. It uses the blank? method to check if the value is either nil or a blank string, that is, a string that is either empty or consists of whitespace.

**:absence**
This helper validates that the specified attributes are absent. It uses the present? method to check if the value is not either nil or a blank string, that is, a string that is either empty or consists of whitespace.

**:inclusion**
The inclusion helper has an option :in that receives the set of values that will be accepted. The :in option has an alias called :within that you can use for the same purpose, if you'd like to. The previous example uses the :message option to show how you can include the attribute's value. For full options please see the [message documentation](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations.html#message).

**:exclusion**

**uniqueness**
This helper validates that the attribute's value is unique right before the object gets saved. It does not create a uniqueness constraint in the database, so it may happen that two different database connections create two records with the same value for a column that you intend to be unique. To avoid that, you must create a unique index on that column in your database.

There is a :scope option that you can use to specify one or more attributes that are used to limit the uniqueness check:

```
class Holiday < ApplicationRecord
  validates :name, uniqueness: { scope: :year,
    message: "should happen once per year" }
end
```
## Callback Methods
**before_validation**
**after_validations**
**skipping validation**

## Relations
**belongs_to**
**has_many**
Indirect association with another model

**has_one**

**has_and_belongs_to_many**
Directo association with another model

**Polymorphic association**
With polymorphic associations, a model can belong to more than one other model, on a single association. For example, you might have a picture model that belongs to either an employee model or a product model. Here's how this could be declared:

```
class Picture < ApplicationRecord
  belongs_to :imageable, polymorphic: true
end

class Employee < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :pictures, as: :imageable
end

class Product < ApplicationRecord
  has_many :pictures, as: :imageable
end
```
