## Action Controller
Before accessing a controller, the Router handles the HTTP Request and sorts them into the right controller.

Action Controller is the C in MVC. After the router has determined which controller to use for a request, the controller is responsible for making sense of the request and producing the appropriate output.

A controller can thus be thought of as a middleman between models and views. It makes the model data available to the view, so it can display that data to the user, and it saves or updates user data to the model.

A controller is a Ruby class which inherits from ApplicationController and has methods just like any other class. When your application receives a request, the routing will determine which controller and action to run, then Rails creates an instance of that controller and runs the method with the same name as the action.

**Strong parameters**
* with array

```
params.permit(id: [])
```

* with nested attributes

```
params.require(:person).permit(:name, :age, pets_attributes: { :id, :name, :category })
```

* Acceptins JSON
```
params.permig(preferences: {})
```

### flash messaeges
The flash is a special part of the session which is cleared with each request. This means that values stored there will only be available in the next request, which is useful for passing error messages, etc.

The flash is accessed via the flash method. Like the session, the flash is represented as a hash.

This way, if an action sets a notice or an alert message, the layout will display it automatically.

### Session
Your application has a session for each user in which you can store small amounts of data that will be persisted between requests. The session is only available in the controller and the view and can use one of several of different storage mechanisms

All session stores use a cookie to store a unique ID for each session (you must use a cookie, Rails will not allow you to pass the session ID in the URL as this is less secure).

For most stores, this ID is used to look up the session data on the server, e.g. in a database table. There is one exception, and that is the default and recommended session store - the CookieStore - which stores all session data in the cookie itself (the ID is still available to you if you need it). This has the advantage of being very lightweight, and it requires zero setup in a new application to use the session. The cookie data is cryptographically signed to make it tamper-proof. And it is also encrypted so anyone with access to it can't read its contents. (Rails will not accept it if it has been edited).
