## Design Patterns

### Factory method
Creational design pattern. Provides an interface to create objects through a superclass.

* Factory Class
* Interface Objects

```
# Creator
class InterfaceClass
  def method_one
    throw NotImplementedError
  end
end
```
**Structure**

* Declare the Factory class (interface) which is common to all objects
* Concrete Products are diferent implementations of the product interface
* Creator class declares the factory method that returns new products
* Concrete Creators thatt override the interface methods

**When to use**

* When you don't know the dependencies of the objects
  * separate products contructions code from the code that uses the product
* When you want to provide users of your library or framerowk a way to extend its internal components
* When you want to save system resources by reusing existing objects instead of rebuilding them each time

### Builder
creational design pattern, which allows constructing complex objects step by step. Builder doesn’t require products to have a common interface. That makes it possible to produce different products using the same construction process.

It’s especially useful when you need to create an object with lots of possible configuration options.

### Observer
Observer Module.
Behavioral design pattern that lets you define a subscription mechanism to notify multiple objects about any events that happen to the object they're observing.

### Simple Delegator | Decorator
Structural design pattern that lets you attach new behaviors to objects by placing these objects inside special wrapper objects that contain the behaviors.

One object has a reference to another and delegates it some work, whereas with inheritance, the object itself is able to do that work, inheriting the behavior from its superclass.

### Singleton
Creational design pattern. Ensures that only one object of its kind exists and provides a single point of acces to if for any other code.

Singleton is a creational design pattern that lets you ensure that a class has only one instance, while providing a global access point to this instance.

In order to make it thread accessible yhou would need to access it through a Semaphore (Mutex).

```
@instance_mutex = Mutex.new
```
